v0.30: Delete and cancel tasks (#1976)
meilisearch/documentation: reference/api/tasks.md

**Description**:  Unique identifier of the targeted index

::: note
This value is always `null` for [global tasks](/learn/advanced/asynchronous_operations.md#global-tasks).
:::

### `status`

**Type**: String

> **Description**: Status of the task. Possible values are `enqueued`, `processing`, `succeeded`, `failed`, `canceled`, and `deleted`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Description**: Status of the task. Possible values are `enqueued`, `processing`, `succeeded`, `failed`, and `canceled`
```

### `type`

**Type**: String
**Description**: Type of operation performed by the task. Possible values are `indexCreation`, `indexUpdate`, `indexDeletion`, `indexSwap`, `documentAdditionOrUpdate`, `documentDeletion`, `settingsUpdate`, `dumpCreation`, `taskCancelation`, `taskDeletion`, and `snapshotCreation`

### `canceledBy`

**Type**: Integer

> **Description**: If the task was canceled, `canceledBy` contains the `uid` of a `taskCancelation` task . If the task was not canceled, `canceledBy` is always `null`

Author: Wonder why Vale didn't catch that 🤔

#### `documentAdditionOrUpdate`

| Name                    | Description                                                                            |
| :---------------------- | :------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **`receivedDocuments`** | Number of documents received                                                           |

> | **`indexedDocuments`**  | Number of documents indexed. `null` when the task status is `enqueued` or `processing` |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| **`indexedDocuments`**  | Number of documents indexed. `null` while the task status is `enqueued` or `processing` |
```

#### `documentDeletion`

| Name                      | Description                                                                            |
| :------------------------ | :------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |

> | **`receivedDocumentIds`** | Number of document ids received                                                        |

Reviewer: This one is probably changed in another doc PR. It should be named `matchedDocuments` now. Just putting that here as a signal if needed.

> | **`matchedDocuments`** | Number of document to be deleted based on the request                                 |
> | **`deletedDocuments`** | Number of documents deleted. `null` when the task status is `enqueued` or `processing` |

Reviewer 2: There's something I find confusing about the way we're describing these fields—it's very easy to miss the difference between "to be deleted" and "deleted". Not sure it can be helped, but here's an attempt.

```suggestion
| **`matchedDocuments`** | Number of documents queued for deletion                                                      |
| **`deletedDocuments`** | Number of documents deleted. `null` while the task status is `enqueued` or `processing` |
```

#### `documentDeletion`

| Name                   | Description                                                                            |
| :--------------------- | :------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |

> | **`matchedDocuments`** | Number of document  to be deleted based on the request                                 |

Author: ```suggestion
| **`matchedDocuments`** | Number of document to be deleted based on the request                                 |
```

#### `indexDeletion`

| Name                   | Description                                                                                                                                                  |
| :--------------------- | :----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |

> | **`deletedDocuments`** | Number of deleted documents. This should equal the total number of documents in the deleted index. `null` when the task status is `enqueued` or `processing` |

Reviewer 2: If you like the suggestion of using "while" instead of "when", replace it here too.

> | **`deletedDocuments`** | Number of deleted documents. This should equal the total number of documents in the deleted index. `null` when the task status is `enqueued` or `processing` |

Author: ```suggestion
| **`deletedDocuments`** | Number of deleted documents. This should equal the total number of documents in the deleted index. `null` while the task status is `enqueued` or `processing` |
```

#### `dumpCreation`

| Name          | Description                                                                                                                                  |
| :------------ | :------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |

> | **`dumpUid`** | The generated `uid` of the dump. This is also the name of the generated dump file. `null` when the task status is `enqueued` or `processing` |

Reviewer 2: Same as above.

> | **`dumpUid`** | The generated `uid` of the dump. This is also the name of the generated dump file. `null` when the task status is `enqueued` or `processing` |

Author: ```suggestion
| **`dumpUid`** | The generated `uid` of the dump. This is also the name of the generated dump file. `null` while the task status is `enqueued` or `processing` |
```

#### `taskCancelation`

#### `taskDeletion`

#### `indexSwap`

### `error`

**Type**: Object

> **Description**: Error details and context. Set to `null` by default. When a task has the [`failed`](#status) status, it returns the following fields:

Author: ```suggestion
**Description**: If the task has a `failed` [status](#status), it contains the error definition. Otherwise, set to `null`
```

| :------------------- | :----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **`matchedTasks`**   | The number of matched tasks. If the API key used with the request doesn’t have access to any of the specified indexes, tasks relating to that index will not be included in `matchedTasks` |
| **`deletedTasks`**   | The number of tasks successfully deleted. If the task deletion fails, this will be `0`. `null` when the task status is `enqueued` or `processing`                                          |
| **`originalFilter`** | The filter used in the [`/tasks`](#delete-tasks) request                                                                                                                                   |

::: note
Task deletion can be successful and still have `deletedTasks: 0`. This happens when `matchedTasks` matches `enqueued` or `processing` tasks.
:::

#### `snapshotCreation`

The `details` object is set to `null` for `snapshotCreation` tasks

> #### `indexSwap`

Author: The [swap indexes PR](https://github.com/meilisearch/documentation/pull/1992) is based of this one. So it will add the content once merged

> #### `indexSwap`

Reviewer 3: Well, text should have been added here by the swap indexes PR but it appears to me as though it's still missing. Can you confirm, please?

> #### `indexSwap`

Author: It did in lines 152-154 👀

### `enqueuedAt`

**Type**: String
**Description**: The date and time when the task was first `enqueued`, in [RFC 3339](https://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc3339.txt) format

### `startedAt`

**Type**: String
**Description**: The date and time when the task began `processing`, in [RFC 3339](https://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc3339.txt) format

### `finishedAt`

**Type**: String

> **Description**: The date and time when the task finished `processing`, whether `failed` or `succeeded`, in [RFC 3339](https://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc3339.txt) format

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Description**: The date and time when the task finished `processing`, whether `failed`, `succeeded`, or `canceled`, in [RFC 3339](https://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc3339.txt) format
```

      "indexUid":"movies_reviews",
      "status":"enqueued",
      "type":"documentAdditionOrUpdate",

>       "canceledBy": null,

Reviewer: It's seems this JSON example is missing the `details` field

Get a single task.

::: note

> If you try retrieving a deleted task, Meilisearch will return a [`task_not_found`](/reference/errors/error_codes.md#task-not-found) error.

Reviewer: 👍👌

      "exactness"
    ]
  },
  "error": null,
  "duration":"PT1S",
  "enqueuedAt":"2021-08-10T14:29:17.000000Z",
  "startedAt":"2021-08-10T14:29:18.000000Z",
  "finishedAt":"2021-08-10T14:29:19.000000Z"
}
```

## Cancel tasks

> ## Delete tasks

Author: Yes #1981 and #1983

| **`types`**            | Delete tasks based on `type`. Separate multiple `types` with a comma (`,`). Use `types=*` for all `types`                            |
| **`indexUids`**        | Delete tasks based on `indexUid`. Separate multiple `uids` with a comma (`,`). Use `indexUids=*` for all `indexUids`. Case-sensitive |
| **`beforeEnqueuedAt`** | Delete tasks **before** a specified `enqueuedAt` date                                                                                |
| **`beforeStartedAt`**  | Delete tasks **before** a specified `startedAt` date                                                                                 |
| **`beforeFinishedAt`** | Delete tasks **before** a specified `finishedAt` date                                                                                |
| **`afterEnqueuedAt`**  | Delete tasks **after** a specified `enqueuedAt` date                                                                                 |
| **`afterStartedAt`**   | Delete tasks **after** a specified `startedAt` date                                                                                  |

> | **`afterFinishedAt`**  | Delete tasks **after** a specified `finishedAt` date                                                                                 |

Author: About `finishedAt`, it is available though it won't select anything.
[Link](https://www.notion.so/Cancel-Tasks-API-4db85ca14ec24ad08aa6063acf40ef07?d=b5614d5a3881445f931b6265deeac796#32fed3e3bad84c4f96ed50a70a75ff82) to Notion dicsussion

::: note

> Date filters are exclusive, meaning you can only filter tasks before or after a specified date.

Author: "Exclusive" here means you can only use > and <. Not >= or <=. Does that make sense?
